README.adoc, before:

:imagesdir: ./images

= Material for paper about Numerate Web in Semantic Web Journal 2022

The paper "The Numerate Web: Mathematical Formulas and Computations on the Web of Data" presents
concepts for integration of Semantic Web technologies with mathematical markup languages for
executing computations and enabling RDF-based mathematical knowledge management.

== Structure of the repository

This repository is structured as follows:

komma:: source code of the KOMMA version that was used for the case studies
numerateweb:: source code of the Java implementation of the presented Numerate Web concepts
launch-ide:: Maven project for launching an Eclipse IDE with the required plugins
launch-web:: Maven project for launching a web application with the required plugins

== Required Java version and runtime environment
* *The projects require Java 11 (OpenJDK 11)*.
** OpenJDK 11 releases can be downloaded at: https://adoptium.net/de/temurin/archive?version=11
* The projects where tested on *Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS* and require at least 2 GB RAM.
* The projects require Maven for building. A wrapper command `mvnw` is included in the `launch-web` and `launch-ide` projects.

== Case study 1: OpenMath Content Dictionaries - Browsing and searching

The directory `launch-ide` contains the configuration for building and running a web application as presented in case study 1 of the paper.

The following steps are necessary for building and running the web application:

- change to the folder `launch-web`
- run `./mvnw clean test -Pconfigure -DskipTests` to initialize or update a launch configuration
- run `./mvnw test` to (re-)start the server instance with the web application
- The application should now be available at: http://localhost:8080/nw/

A browser for the symbol libraries can be found via the menu point *Symbols*.
The search functionality can be accessed via *Tools > Search expressions*.

The directory `launch-web/workspace/models/openmath.ttl` contains the 
RDF-version of the original OpenMath Content Dictionaries.
This version was obtained by using the class `org.numerateweb.math.om.cd.OMCDImporter` for reading of the XML versions (.ocd files).

== Case study 2: Modeling of process chains

The directory `launch-ide` contains the configuration for building and running an IDE-based application as presented in case study 2 of the paper.

The following steps are necessary for building and running the application:

- change to the folder `launch-ide`
- run `./mvnw clean test -Pconfigure -DskipTests` to initialize or update a launch configuration
- run `./mvnw  test` to (re-)start the application

When the application is started for the first time, the required project (located at `launch-ide/workspace/ProcessChains`) needs to be imported into the workspace:

* choose *Import projects...* within the view *Project Explorer* or use the menu *File > Import...*
* select *General > Existing Projects into Workspace* and click *Next*
* click *Browse...* next to *Select root directory* and choose the directory named *workspace*
** You should now see `ProcessChains` within the list of projects.
* click *Finish*
* The project `ProcessChains` is now imported into the workspace.

Afterwards, the file `model.ttl` can be opened by double clicking on it or by using the context menu *Open With > OWL Editor*.
This opens KOMMA's OWL editor that is extended with functions for editing mathematical content.

You can freely move between files by double clicking on ontologies within
the *Imports* section of the editor or by opening the respective files by using the view *Project Explorer*. Please ensure that the files are opened with *OWL Editor.

The following screenshots illustrate some activities that are possible with the IDE.

.List all constraints in *Instances* view and edit expressions in *RDF* view
image::list-and-edit-constraints.png[]

.Edit a specific constraint on a class using the *RDF* view
image::edit-constraint-on-class.png[]

.Run computations for a class
image::run-computations-on-class.png[]

.Show results for instances of a class by using the *Instances* view and the *RDF* view
image::show-results.png[]

Commit message:

Add note to use --recursive option for cloning.

README.adoc, after:

:imagesdir: ./images

= Material for paper about Numerate Web in Semantic Web Journal 2022

The paper "The Numerate Web: Mathematical Formulas and Computations on the Web of Data" presents
concepts for integration of Semantic Web technologies with mathematical markup languages for
executing computations and enabling RDF-based mathematical knowledge management.

== Clone the repository

Use `git clone --recursive https://github.com/kenwenzel/numerateweb-swj-2022.git` to correctly initialize the referenced submodules.

== Structure of the repository

This repository is structured as follows:

komma:: source code of the KOMMA version that was used for the case studies
numerateweb:: source code of the Java implementation of the presented Numerate Web concepts
launch-ide:: Maven project for launching an Eclipse IDE with the required plugins
launch-web:: Maven project for launching a web application with the required plugins

== Required Java version and runtime environment
* *The projects require Java 11 (OpenJDK 11)*.
** OpenJDK 11 releases can be downloaded at: https://adoptium.net/de/temurin/archive?version=11
* The projects where tested on *Ubuntu 20.04.3 LTS* and require at least 2 GB RAM.
* The projects require Maven for building. A wrapper command `mvnw` is included in the `launch-web` and `launch-ide` projects.

== Case study 1: OpenMath Content Dictionaries - Browsing and searching

The directory `launch-ide` contains the configuration for building and running a web application as presented in case study 1 of the paper.

The following steps are necessary for building and running the web application:

- change to the folder `launch-web`
- run `./mvnw clean test -Pconfigure -DskipTests` to initialize or update a launch configuration
- run `./mvnw test` to (re-)start the server instance with the web application
- The application should now be available at: http://localhost:8080/nw/

A browser for the symbol libraries can be found via the menu point *Symbols*.
The search functionality can be accessed via *Tools > Search expressions*.

The directory `launch-web/workspace/models/openmath.ttl` contains the 
RDF-version of the original OpenMath Content Dictionaries.
This version was obtained by using the class `org.numerateweb.math.om.cd.OMCDImporter` for reading of the XML versions (.ocd files).

== Case study 2: Modeling of process chains

The directory `launch-ide` contains the configuration for building and running an IDE-based application as presented in case study 2 of the paper.

The following steps are necessary for building and running the application:

- change to the folder `launch-ide`
- run `./mvnw clean test -Pconfigure -DskipTests` to initialize or update a launch configuration
- run `./mvnw  test` to (re-)start the application

When the application is started for the first time, the required project (located at `launch-ide/workspace/ProcessChains`) needs to be imported into the workspace:

* choose *Import projects...* within the view *Project Explorer* or use the menu *File > Import...*
* select *General > Existing Projects into Workspace* and click *Next*
* click *Browse...* next to *Select root directory* and choose the directory named *workspace*
** You should now see `ProcessChains` within the list of projects.
* click *Finish*
* The project `ProcessChains` is now imported into the workspace.

Afterwards, the file `model.ttl` can be opened by double clicking on it or by using the context menu *Open With > OWL Editor*.
This opens KOMMA's OWL editor that is extended with functions for editing mathematical content.

You can freely move between files by double clicking on ontologies within
the *Imports* section of the editor or by opening the respective files by using the view *Project Explorer*. Please ensure that the files are opened with *OWL Editor.

The following screenshots illustrate some activities that are possible with the IDE.

.List all constraints in *Instances* view and edit expressions in *RDF* view
image::list-and-edit-constraints.png[]

.Edit a specific constraint on a class using the *RDF* view
image::edit-constraint-on-class.png[]

.Run computations for a class
image::run-computations-on-class.png[]

.Show results for instances of a class by using the *Instances* view and the *RDF* view
image::show-results.png[]
